As I was building out the activity classifier lesson,
I noticed that there was one feature,
the mean absolute difference in the y channel,
that could basically classify our data all by itself.
For this reason, I purposely left it out of our featurization code but
let's now build a model using only this feature and then take a look at its performance.
So we're going to do featurization just as before
using 10 second non-overlapping windows.
We iterate through our entire dataset and for each session divide it
into windows of size 10 and instead of computing all our features,
we'll just compute the mean absolute difference in the y channel.
So now our feature matrix is basically just a vector, 611 by 1.
So let's take a look at its performance just as before,
using leave one subject out
cross-validation and we see that our classification is 92 percent,
basically the same accuracy but with only one feature.
In fact, we don't even need a random forest.
We can use a decision tree that just has a depth of two nodes.
A decision tree with two nodes is basically saying that
the mean absolute difference falls within a range,
it belongs to one class,
if the data point is below that range,
it's another class, and if it's above that range, it's the third class.
So it's a very simple model and
we can see that we get exactly the same performance, 92 percent.
So this one feature is extremely powerful.
So what does this mean for our activity classification problem?
Can we now start building activity classifiers that just use this one feature?
Well, we don't know if this feature is actually all
that powerful without seeing it highlighted in
the literature or observing the same behavior in a different dataset.
Again, we only had eight subjects and maybe they all perform
these activities very similarly or because they were all in the same clinic,
maybe the study coordinator or lab setup somehow
influenced them to perform these activities
in a way that made this feature so informative.
So this is just another example of how it's still very
possible to over-fit when you're working with real-world datasets,
even when you follow proper machine-learning hygiene,
like cross-validation and train test split.
Decision tree with just two nodes is basically saying
that if our feature falls within a certain range,
it belongs to one class,
if it's below the range,
it's a different class,
and if it's above the range, it's a third class.
So it's a very simple model.